#JavaScript
What is the difference between map and filter?
.map() runs a callback on each item and returns a new array with said items. .filter() returns an array of the same or smaller length based on a callback that evaluates to a boolean.

When would you declare a variable with let as opposed to const?
When you are modifying that variable later in your code

What is a pure function?
A pure function is a function where the return value is only determined by its input values, without observable side effects.

What does the static keyword do?
The static keyword creates a method associated with the class, and not with an instance of the class.

What does the super keyword do?
Accesses the parent class.

Define a promise.
A one time guarantee of future value.

Explain AJAX in as much detail as possible.
Makes HTTP requests from the browser without refreshing the page. Can be done with native APIs like XHR and Fetch or libraries like jQuery and axios.

What order does this log? ‘console.log(“first”), setTimeout(() => ‘console.log(“second”) , 0) ‘console.log(“third”)’
First, third, second

What does the following code return: [20, 40, 60, 80, 100].sort()?
[100, 20, 40, 60, 80]. This occurs because, by default, the method sorts the values as strings in alphabetical and ascending order (‘1’ < ‘2’).

Explain what the bind function does.
.bind() returns a new function with the keyword this and any arguments passed to it bound already.

Explain the difference between .call() and .apply().
.call() accepts an argument list, whereas .apply() accepts an array of arguments.

#OOP
In JS: how do you specify that “Dog” subclasses “Mammal” ?
class Dog extends Mammal { … }

Describe what ‘this’ is.
When a JS object is being invoked, ‘this’ is a reserved JS keyword which refers to the object containing the method being invoked. Exceptions would be arrow functions because they don't have their own ‘this.’

When is a constructor function called?
When the new keyword is invoked.

What is the difference between abstraction and encapsulation?
Encapsulation is hiding or grouping details into a package while Abstraction is when we only show what is required for the scope of the package.

#Node/Express
What does next do?
Moves onto the next piece of middleware

What is middleware? Give an example of when you would use it.
Functions that intercept the request and can add to the request object or respond.

What is an error first callback?
Common node pattern where the first parameter to a callback is an error.

What is the difference between Authentication and Authorization?
Authentication is determining if you are the correct person and Authorization is if you are allowed into certain places.

What are some security vulnerabilities we’ve discussed?
CSRF, XSS, SQL Injection

What is a JWT?
A string with a header, payload and signature. Header and payload can be decoded, signature can not - it requires a secret key to be used to sign securely.

#SQL
